# Azure Introduction

doAzureParallel lets users seamlessly take advantage of the scale and elasticity of Azure to run their parallel workloads. This section will describe how the doAzureParallel package uses Azure and some of the key benefits that Azure provides.

## Azure Batch

Azure Batch is a platform service for running large-scale parallel and high-performance computing (HPC) applications efficiently in the cloud.

### How does it work?

The doAzureParallel is built on of Azure Batch via the *rAzureBatch* package that interacts with the Azure Batch service's REST API. Azure Batch schedules work across a managed collection of VMs (called a *pool*) and automatically scales the pool meet the needs of your R jobs.

In Azure Batch, a pool consists of a collection of VMs (in our case, a collection of DSVMs) - this pool can be configured by the config file that is generated by this package. For each foreach loop, the Azure Batch Job Scheduler will create a group of tasks (called an Azure Batch Job), where each iteration in the loop maps to a task. Each task is then distributed across the pool, running the code inside of each iteration in the loop. 

To do this, we copy the existing R environment and store it in Azure Storage. As the VMs in the Azure Batch pool are ready to run the job, it will fetch and load the R environment. The VM will run the R code inside each iteration of the foreach loop under the loaded R environment. Once the code is finished, the results are push back into Azure Storage, and a merge task is used to aggregate the results. Finally, the aggregated results are returned to the user within the R session.

Learn more about Azure Batch [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/batch/batch-technical-overview#pricing).

### Azure Batch Pricing

Azure Batch is a free service; you aren't charged for the Batch account itself. You are charged for the underlying Azure compute resources that your Batch solutions consume, and for the resources consumed by other services when your workloads run.

## Data Science Virtual Machines (DSVM)

The doAzureParallel package uses the Data Science Virtual Machine (DSVM) for each node in the cluster. The DSVM is a customized VM image that has many popular R tools pre-installed. Because these tools are pre-baked into the DSVM VM image, using it gives us considerable speedup when provisioning the cluster.

This package uses the Linux Edition of the DSVM which comes preinstalled with the Microsoft R Server Developer edition as well as many popular packages from Microsoft R Open (MRO). By using and extending open source R, Microsoft R Server is fully compatible with R scripts, functions and CRAN packages.

Learn more about the DSVM [here](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/microsoft-ads.standard-data-science-vm?tab=Overview).

### DSVM Pricing
Using the DSVM is free and doesn't add to the cost of bare VMs.



